---
layout: post
title:  "Learn to code?... Why?"
date:   2017-04-21 21:47:57 +0000
---


I will turn 40 this year... 4-0. Like many people nearing this milestone in life I've gone through a lot of introspection on where I am and where I would like to be both personally and professionally. I've read books, listened to podcasts, taken tests... all kinds of tests Meyers-Briggs, Gallup Strengths Finder, Kolbe-A Index to name a few, all with the end of knowing myself better and using that to chart who I want to be. When it comes to my current professional life I feel that a Stephen Covey quote is quite apropos “If the ladder is not leaning against the right wall, every step we take just gets us to the wrong place faster.” You see as I looked at the results of these tests and where my personality and true strengths lie and then looked at my current professional situation I realized that there was a complete mismatch, a disconnect if you will. With that realization I knew I needed change, big change. If I were a younger man I would throw caution to the wind leave my job without a thought and set off on a new adventure, but alas I'm not, and the reality is that I have a young family that I care for very much and I take my duty to feed, clothe, and house them among other things very seriously. So I started to look for alternatives, a way out from my current situation that wouldn't leave my family cold and hugry in the streets. I considered graduate school, an MBA perhaps but the time and cost required would still take a heavy toll on my family, and I wasn't sure that I would end up where I wanted to be. One afternoon I was reading an article in WIRED about an intensive course in UX at a special school in Chattanooga TN that really peaked my interest. One I live in Atlanta and Chattanooga is not that far, two I find UX fascinating along with design and technology and anything that is future oriented, of all the lands in Disneyworld Tomorrowland was and continues to be my favorite... yet I digress. The school in UX caught my interest, but was still not a pragmatic choice for my current situation as it was a two year program, but it got my mind going and I started researching other options. In the course of my research I came to the conclusion that the programs available to me in UX although interesting wouldn't adequately prepare me for a real job in the workplace. Something else became abundantly clear in my research, a proper education in coding would not only utilize my strengths, but would also allow me to land a job that would provide for my family. Coding excites me in the same way photography excites me, a true synergistic blend between the creative and the technical that produces amazing things. I'm sold on coding, now all I needed was to find the right place for me to learn. As I researched coding schools and bootcamps and dug through mountains of online reviews the Flatiron school came up time and time again, and the rest is as they say history. Please follow along with me as I begin this new adventure. 

-Pchuk


